Now, that you understand obligations,
and how to understand control objectives,
let's turn the one of the main priorities for the compliance professional,
evaluating your organization's controls.
We went through the whole process of learning how to understand control objectives,
so that we could measure our controls against them.
Very much like risk assessment,
your organization should keep a risk register of
your control objectives and what compliance obligations they
originate from and then you should be able to line up
your existing security controls against those control objectives.
Then we'll evaluate your control similarly to how we did
in governance in terms of function and time,
but without all of the extra considerations.
Let's look at how you, actually,
evaluate your controls against objectives.
Here's an example objective.
Our control says, "Firewall rules must
be continuously monitored for unauthorized changes."
Our control says, that the security team reviews
firewall logs one time per week to look for unapproved changes.
Now, does our control meet the control objective in both function and time?
We're reviewing the logs,
we're meeting the function.
What about time?
We're not really monitoring continuously.
What do you think we, actually, need here?
It's probably something more automated.
Let's spend a few minutes on common controls.
A common control is a single control that meets multiple objectives.
Let's take a look at an example here.
You have two control objectives.
The first one says, that "Firewall rules must
be continuously monitored for unauthorized changes."
The second objective says,
that "Firewall rules must be monitored for changes at least weekly."
Now, let's look at our existing controls.
Does Control 1 meet the objectives?
Control 1 says, "The security team reviews
firewall logs one time per week to look for unapproved changes."
So it probably does not meet both objectives.
It probably meets the second objective,
but not the first.
What about the second control?
The second control says,
"The security team is alerted anytime a firewall change is made,
and they review the alerts immediately."
If we do this,
it probably meets both objectives.
It covers us for monitoring at unspecified intervals, and continuous monitoring.
Now finally, there are compensating controls.
These are controls that don't necessarily meet the letter of a compliance obligation,
but may meet the spirit at least
sufficient enough to remain in compliance with the standard.
The idea being that the controls compensate for not having specific controls.
Let's take a quick look at an example of this.
Let's look at our control objective,
"Users should not be allowed to access
the Internet in order to prevent unauthorized data sharing."
Our company doesn't do that,
but we do have two other controls in place.
Control 1 says, that "User Internet activity
is strictly controlled by using web filtering software."
Then Control 2 says,
that "Endpoint data loss prevention clients are
installed on computers that prohibit data sharing via the Internet."
While this isn't exactly what the objective wants,
these controls may be sufficient to remain compliant.
But typically, you're going to need an external assessor to help you make
the decision as to whether or not these controls
truly compensate for the control objective.